board/ath79/td-w8980/README.md, before:

This page applies to the TP-Link TD-W8980, however it will probably be of use to users who have the [TD-W9980](http://wiki.openwrt.org/toh/tp-link/td-w9980) and possibly also the [TD-W8970](http://wiki.openwrt.org/toh/tp-link/td-w8970).

# Preflight

It is *strongly* recommended you have a serial console (see below) working.

You will need a TFTP client.

Plug in your workstation over Ethernet, and assign yourself a static IP in the range `192.168.1.{2...254}/24`.

## Debian

    sudo apt-get install --no-install-recommends -yy tftp

# Building

Work through [Configuration](../../../README.md#configuration) and then type the following to build the firmware:

    make ath79/td-w8980

# Installing

...

# Information

Here is some helpful information regarding the device.

## Opening the Unit



## Serial Cable

The serial port mod I use is to place a standard stereo 3.5mm headphone jack onto the back of the unit immediately above the reset switch.  You will want to measure up about 15mm from the centre of the reset switch to where you are to bore your hole for the socket.

The process is made easier by that [FTDI](http://ftdichip.com/) make very nice serial cables that work great under Linux, including the [TTL-232R-3V3-AJ](http://www.ftdichip.com/Products/Cables/USBTTLSerial.htm) which means you do not need to mess with a MAX-232 chip or soldering.  For the cabling inside I used some spare [ribbon cable](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ribbon_cable).

![Headphone Jack As a Serial Port](serial.jpeg "Headphone Jack As a Serial Port")

Wiring it up is straight forward by using the [headphone jack pinout of the TTL-232R-3V3-AJ](http://www.ftdichip.com/Images/TTL-232R-AJ%20pinout.jpg) with the pinout of the router below:

                Towards Front
    ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
     __
    |  |    <- Pin 4, Router's Serial TX
     --
    |  |    <- Pin 3, Router's Serial RX
     --
    |  |    <- Pin 2, GND
     --
    |  |    <- Pin 1, VCC [not used for serial port]
     --
     J7
    
    ---------------\
                   |
       CPU/SoC     |
    
    vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
                Towards Rear

**N.B.** remember that when wiring you attach the TX pin of one end to the RX pin of the other and of course GND to GND

Once all hooked up, you should use [minicom](http://alioth.debian.org/projects/minicom/) and configure the serial port to run at `115200 8N1` with *no* hardware or software flow control.

**N.B.** press `t` on the console to interrupt U-Boot autobooting

## JTAG

The JTAG 'port' can be found to the left of the CPU/SoC where you will find six labelled surface mount pads, although on my unit they were actually solder blobs.

![Photo of the CPU/SoC with Serial/JTAG Pins](guts.jpeg "Photo of the CPU/SoC with Serial/JTAG Pins")

### Resurrecting a Brick

...

## Kernel Cooking Notes

A list of issues and hints I have found with the kernel:

 * ...

# Related Links

 * [OpenWrt TP-Link TD-W8980](http://wiki.openwrt.org/toh/tp-link/td-w8980)

Commit message:

added instructions on how to open the unit

board/ath79/td-w8980/README.md, after:

This page applies to the TP-Link TD-W8980, however it will probably be of use to users who have the [TD-W9980](http://wiki.openwrt.org/toh/tp-link/td-w9980) and possibly also the [TD-W8970](http://wiki.openwrt.org/toh/tp-link/td-w8970).

# Preflight

It is *strongly* recommended you have a serial console (see below) working.

You will need a TFTP client.

Plug in your workstation over Ethernet, and assign yourself a static IP in the range `192.168.1.{2...254}/24`.

## Debian

    sudo apt-get install --no-install-recommends -yy tftp

# Building

Work through [Configuration](../../../README.md#configuration) and then type the following to build the firmware:

    make ath79/td-w8980

# Installing

...

# Information

Here is some helpful information regarding the device.

## Opening the Unit

There are four screws underneath the unit that need to be removed, and then you need to use a thin flat screw driver to pop the clips that fortunately give way easily without snapping.

![The Unit Opened](http://www.mediafire.com/convkey/6e26/7r7ns40xjd3rq4hfg.jpg "The Unit Opened")

In total there are nine clips, three on the left, three on the right, two on the front and one (hard to see in the above photo) at the centre rear.

The board is not fixed to the chassis, and can just be easily lifted out (and put back in) by carefully lifting the front and sliding out; take not of the structs that the screws went into that keep the board in place.

## Serial Cable

The serial port mod I use is to place a standard stereo 3.5mm headphone jack onto the back of the unit immediately above the reset switch.  You will want to measure up about 15mm from the centre of the reset switch to where you are to bore your hole for the socket.

The process is made easier by that [FTDI](http://ftdichip.com/) make very nice serial cables that work great under Linux, including the [TTL-232R-3V3-AJ](http://www.ftdichip.com/Products/Cables/USBTTLSerial.htm) which means you do not need to mess with a MAX-232 chip or soldering.  For the cabling inside I used some spare [ribbon cable](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ribbon_cable).

![Headphone Jack As a Serial Port](serial.jpeg "Headphone Jack As a Serial Port")

Wiring it up is straight forward by using the [headphone jack pinout of the TTL-232R-3V3-AJ](http://www.ftdichip.com/Images/TTL-232R-AJ%20pinout.jpg) with the pinout of the router below:

                Towards Front
    ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
     __
    |  |    <- Pin 4, Router's Serial TX
     --
    |  |    <- Pin 3, Router's Serial RX
     --
    |  |    <- Pin 2, GND
     --
    |  |    <- Pin 1, VCC [not used for serial port]
     --
     J7
    
    ---------------\
                   |
       CPU/SoC     |
    
    vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
                Towards Rear

**N.B.** remember that when wiring you attach the TX pin of one end to the RX pin of the other and of course GND to GND

Once all hooked up, you should use [minicom](http://alioth.debian.org/projects/minicom/) and configure the serial port to run at `115200 8N1` with *no* hardware or software flow control.

**N.B.** press `t` on the console to interrupt U-Boot autobooting

## JTAG

The JTAG 'port' can be found to the left of the CPU/SoC where you will find six labelled surface mount pads, although on my unit they were actually solder blobs.

![Photo of the CPU/SoC with Serial/JTAG Pins](guts.jpeg "Photo of the CPU/SoC with Serial/JTAG Pins")

### Resurrecting a Brick

...

## Kernel Cooking Notes

A list of issues and hints I have found with the kernel:

 * ...

# Related Links

 * [OpenWrt TP-Link TD-W8980](http://wiki.openwrt.org/toh/tp-link/td-w8980)
